Christopher Rosenthal

Seattle, Washington
crosenth@gmail.com

Experience

Bioinformatics Software Engineer 2012 - Present
University of Washington Department of Laboratory Medicine,
Seattle, Washington
I am a bioinformatics developer of Python software packages and pipelines used to parse and analyze molecular microbiology next-gen sequencing data. My work has resulted in several publications. I have also helped expand our bioinformatics software development team and mentor new bioinformatics engineers.

Full Stack Software Engineer 2009 - 2012
The Seattle Times Company, Seattle, Washington
I developed digital content distribution software. My role required the flexibility to develop using the latest software technologies on new and old platforms with minimal documentation. I had the pleasure of working alongside Pulitzer prize winning journalists, photographers and videographers. My role aided the transition from print and legacy software systems to cutting edge cloud based digital content management systems.

Graduate Student 2007 - 2009
Indiana University School of Informatics and Computing, Bloomington, Indiana
Thesis Project: Using genomics to map disease in coral reef ecosystems.

Software Development Engineer 2005 - 2007
Regenstrief Institute, Indianapolis, Indiana
I developed Java software applications to help doctors, pharmacists and physicians prescribe medicine and manage patient records.

Software Development Engineer 2003 - 2005
Department of Chemistry, Bloomington, Indiana
At the Chemistry department I developed a content management system for digital classroom homework assignments. The system was custom developed using Perl and Javascript without the availability of today's web based software stack technologies.

Education

Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana

M.S., Bioinformatics, 2009
B.S., Computer Science with Honors, Biology Minor, 2005

Skills

Portfolio: https://github.com/crosenth
Software Languages: Python, Java, Perl, Lisp, SQL and more
Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Biopython, Scons
Databases: Postgres, SQLite, MySQL, HSQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server
Productivity: Ubuntu Linux, Vim, Git, tmux, Bash scripting, Docker, cloud computing, AWS and more

Personal Interestes

Mobile software technologies, Sailing, Fishing, Crabbing, Crossfit

Publications

Clinical Next Generation Sequencing Outperforms Standard Microbiological Culture for Characterizing Polymicrobial Samples, Clinical Chemistry, 2016.
Performance Comparison of Illumina and Ion Torrent Next-Generation Sequencing Platforms for 16S rRNA-Based Bacterial Community Profiling, Applied Environmental Microbiology, 2014.
Molecular Diagnosis of Actinomadura madurae Infection by 16S rRNA Deep Sequencing, Journal of Clinical Microbiology, 2013.
Rapid 16S rRNA Next-Generation Sequencing of Polymicrobial Clinical Samples for Diagnosis of Complex Bacterial Infections, PLoS One, 2013.
